<h1>Discourse on the Emergence of Oligopical Fascism</h1>

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">By: Michael Pisani</span>

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">8/1/2023</span>

Installation Instructions:
1. Download and install Git for your corresponding system (Make sure to tick the option to add Git Bash to the Shell Menu)
2. Right click, select 'open Git Bash here' where you'd like to install

<span style="text-decoration:underline;">
<h2>Abstract:</h2>

My assertion is that we have entered a resurgence of fascism – not fascistic tendencies, rather a solidified presence of fascism at the state level. This new epoch of fascism has very unique characteristics. Essentially my argument is that:

1. Over the duress of the Ukraine war, the west has devolved into fascism. The manifestation for me involves the power of war capital wresting tax money to the tune of 300 billion dollars to fund Ukraine. This is thus the intermarriage between war capital and the state.

2. The characteristics of oligopical fascism are unique in that they are shaped by liberalism and the different material conditions of reality present in modernity in general - most interestingly the relationship between war capital and capitalists in the tech industry.

The[ war in Ukraine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russo-Ukrainian_War), or rather, the[ Global North](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_North_and_Global_South)/[West’s](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_Bloc) imperialist facilitation of it and responses to it, have culminated in an unprecedented and clearly visible shift in the mechanics of global power relations; at this juncture, the largest and most influential components of war industry capital, (the components of the Western[ military-industrial complex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military%E2%80%93industrial_complex)), have so overtly and obviously become the dictator of capital relations throughout the Western world, and likewise places in the grip of western finance capital. In this discourse, we will discuss the material analysis and the unique facets, characteristics and dynamics of this new and unprecedented fascism which has been termed ‘oligopical fascism.’ \

First we we, must be clear and concise in our terminology. We will be discussing[ liberalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberalism),[ capitalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capitalism),[ imperialism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperialism),[ colonialism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colonialism), and[ fascism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fascism). We must be clear in our understanding of the relationship and material process between[ liberalism and capitalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bourgeois_liberalization), namely the economic tradition of[ economic liberalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_liberalism), and also between[ capitalism and fascism](https://www.marxists.org/archive/dutt/articles/1935/question_of_fascism.htm) so that we may understand and dissect the emergence of this new fascist[ oligopoly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperialism,_the_Highest_Stage_of_Capitalism) which is (d)evolved from its neoliberal/imperialist predecessor. We are starting from the premise of[ historical materialism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Historical_materialism); that fascism is by definition the material result of capitalism decaying in an industrialized state when it is not overthrown by[ Marxist-Leninism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marxism%E2%80%93Leninism). We may determine that the transition from capitalism to fascism is complete with the interlocking or intermarriage of capitalism and the state. When capitalism assumes the role of the state.

My first assertion is that this intermarriage between capitalism and the state has occurred recently in our modernity and that this is an unprecedented characterization of fascism never before encountered. This revelation will materialize through this discourse, however, to list a few points:

1. From the aspect of being a proxy war, the US’ involvement in the war in Ukraine was not at all controversial. On the contrary, it was the _only _permissible_ _position to have. Even right wing pundits like Tucker Carlson were immediately and swiftly removed from the air if they did not 100% align with the agenda. The conflict was entirely presented in an absurdly fictitious, dishonest, and quite frankly, disgusting narrative used to justify wholesale murder and jeopardize the existence of our species on this planet. Anti-war beliefs – simply the view that there should not be escalations, was met with red scare neo-[Mcarthysism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McCarthyism), being ‘canceled’ socially, people losing their jobs, bring targeted, via social media algorithms, government surveillance of the most invasive and pervasive kind, and the most comprehensive media blackout the world has ever seen. The truth has been entirely scrubbed from most western search engines and internet services providers. That is, you can’t even look up the truth without deferring to international sources. To that end, there was no vote amongst the people of the United States. Some like 3  no 00 billion un-audited dollars of US taxpayer money was just handed over to Ukraine. Tanks, artillery, shells, ammunition, infantry fighting vehicles, logistical support, tactical support, all provided overnight as a given. There is no alternative. To suggest we don’t tamper with the very real possibility of a nuclear holocaust is pro-Russian, it’s ‘Putinist’ (whatever that’s supposed to even mean), it’s anti-freedom, it’s anti-democracy – and this is the level of doublespeak we’ve actually reached. ‘It’s anti-democracy to suggest we don’t fund Banderite ethnic cleansing.’ Millions of people in the United States are homeless. Bridges are collapsing, Trains carrying toxic chemicals are derailing all over the country. People are going homeless, inflation is skyrocketing, people can’t afford basic medical services. There’s an average of two mass shootings a day – mostly involving children in schools; this is the grand epitome and crown jewel of liberal capitalist society in all of its glory, only, it’s gilded exterior has tarnished and revealed the puss and parasite engulfed rot and filth that runs through its core. There is no difference between the hedonistic principle of these ideologies and Satanism, they are entirely of the same cloth.

2. The subjugation of other limbs of capitalist enterprise through the use of the state. We examine the case study of the tech industry, and more specifically, SpaceX, Starlink, and Elon Musk in our discourse below.

Ergo we can say definitively, and in keeping with the material and scientific[ Marx](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karl_Marx)ist-[Lenin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Lenin)st definition, and the scholarly definitions of that tradition i.e.[ György Lukács](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gy%C3%B6rgy_Luk%C3%A1cs),[ Bertolt Brecht](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bertolt_Brecht),[ Georgi Dimitrov](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgi_Dimitrov),[ Clara Zetkin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clara_Zetkin) as well as many of the criterion in the definition and descriptions given by various scholars (including anarchist scholars, other socialist scholars, other communist scholars, fascist scholars, and liberal scholars) such as[ Amadeo Bordiga](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amadeo_Bordiga),[ Leon Trotsky](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leon_Trotsky),[ Umberto Eco](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Umberto_Eco),[ Ian Kershaw](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ian_Kershaw),[ George Lakoff](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Lakoff),[ Mark Johnson](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Johnson_(philosopher)),[ Robert Paxton](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Paxton),[ Stanley G. Payne](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanley_G._Payne),[ Jason Stanley](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jason_Stanley),[ George Orwell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amadeo_Bordiga), and[ Franklin D. Roosevelt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Franklin_D._Roosevelt).

If we look at the[ hegemonic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hegemony) discourse, this (d)evolved form of modern fascism is also unprecedented in its mechanics. For example, we are referring to the larger notion of Western Civilization because oligopical fascism controls the foreign policy of the US and its vassal states in Europe and Australia and Canada. This is in contrast to the last time we encountered fascism which was centered solely around the nation state and its alliance with other nation states. In this instance, it is actually centered around the liberal capitalist ideology itself as an existential ontology, rather than white supremacy (although that is of course an inherent part of liberal thought and capitalism in practice).

To that end, if we examine the new fascistic relation of capital with other elements of capital, we will see something not only unprecedented but truly fascinating. An example of this, perhaps the epitome or pinnacle example, is the relationship between the Western tech industry and Western war capital. The tech industry is essentially being used as a battering ram in the economic and preliminary trade war against China. Nearly the entire tech industry has lost substantial world market control and revenue in the United State’s facilitation of trade war and economic terrorism in the form of sanctions against China. We have also seen this directly impact these industries in the West’s balkanization crusade against Russia. One of the best examples of this would be in relation to Elon Musk’s Starlink Satellites. In this instance, Elon Musk, a capitalist with more individual net worth than the war oligopoly capitalists is directly subjugated by them. Elon Musk initially provided the Starlink Satellites to Ukraine, free of charge. In typically capitalist fashion, this ‘donation’ ended and became entirely[ subsidized by US taxpayers](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/04/08/us-quietly-paying-millions-send-starlink-terminals-ukraine-contrary-spacexs-claims/?fbclid=IwAR2yHK9BWa4_ub9Tl_CxEOlhFLKJPvGQ4ftkpEOIB6j3_Avh7p1ih7ip-6c) (at the cost of over $3 million USD so far), while Elon Musk’s company SpaceX – the company that owns Starlink, continues to deny that US taxpayers are paying millions of dollars for Starlink in Ukraine). Now Elon Musk (at least publicly) did attempt to restrict the use of the satellites from the use in Ukraine/[NATO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NATO) military operations. refuse to bar Russia from satellites, citing free speech or whatever. did not want his satellites involved Resultantly, economic instability, volatility, downturn, inflation, stagnation, stagflation, and recession have rocked the Western world in their bid to functionally set back the development of China. Capitalists like Elon Musk have been rendered

This tirade of fascism is likewise unique in that it incorporates most of the facets of[ neoliberalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neoliberalism) whereas, traditionally, fascism has had an anti-conservative and/or spiritual/esoteric criticism of liberalism, however, at this juncture in history, capitalism’s internal contradictions and institutions materializing in tantamount doublespeak and doublethink have resulted in an advanced economic warfare and[ lawfare](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawfare) within the liberal tradition. This has resulted in the downright weaponization of liberal ideology at its most extreme tendrils. Indeed, as observed during the Cold War era and it’s aftermath of US hegemony, neoliberalism applied as foreign policy is mechanically[ indistinguishable from fascism](https://youtu.be/q-k0hnaAOc4). Ergo, oligopical fascism needn’t have a single figurehead, in fact, it can have dysfunctional Joe Biden sock-puppets as dummy figureheads.[ Corpratocracy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporatocracy) in the function of[ fascist corporatism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporatism#Fascist_corporatism) with the war capital industries that make up the military-industrial complex get what they want - the fascistic and Keynesian synthesis of perpetual debt for the people, and unlimited military spending. This highlights the monopolistic and cartel oriented defeat of the free market where supply chains are controlled via government coercion (domestically as imposition on the other tendrils of capital and the suffering of people under inherent material decay in quality of living. In foreign policy, this manifests as conquests using all the old tricks of neoliberal imperialism). This level of horizontal and vertical integration has effectively defeated supply and demand. 

Another divergence from our historical occurrences of fascism is one modulated by technological advancement. The tantamount example of this again is the War in Ukraine. This conflict exists in a series of pocketed vacuums. The entirety of the Western World is kept intentionally misinformed and in a constant state of supporting an actual[ Banderite](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Organisation_of_Ukrainian_Nationalists),[ Neo-nazi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Azov_Brigade), and[ identitarian ethnic cleansing campaign](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identitarian_movement) in Ukraine[ starting in 2014](https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/Documents/Countries/UA/OHCHRThematicReportUkraineJan2014-May2016_EN.pdf). Ergo, the war is unique in that the entire West, and it’s hegemonic influence and sophisticated array of unprecedented censorship capacity in the form of algorithms and direct governmental integration with these mechanics of the tech industry, i.e. essentially the control over media through the internet, have spun a completely false narrative around the war in Ukraine and material occurrences. At the same time, if one knows where to look, and by bypassing the fascist censorship mechanics, one can typically find video footage of pretty much every western/Ukrainian/NATO asset being destroyed on a unit by unit basis in near real-time.

Still, another unique facet Another interesting thing my analysis reveals is that oligopical fascism is hostile towards what I call 'authentic religion' I draw a materialist distinction between authentic religion and the liberal religions - Satanism/liberalism (hedonistic principle), the Calvinist offshoots, Scientology, institutional secularism (if you consider it a religion - which I would since it promotes atheism (the belief in disbelief) as rational while supposing religion is inherently dangerous or oppressive when in fact we are called to live in a state of shariah as our governance. \


<h2>Conclusion:</h2>


Summarily, if we were to list defining characteristics of oligopical fascism, we could say:

1. An apparatus which is ingrained in the capitalist imperialist institutions of modernity (the oligopoly complex); it is the industry of war capital derived from the fruition of the military-industrial complex culminating in the interlinking or intermarriage of capital with the state in a dictatorship of capital.

2. An indistinction between liberal doctrine, neoliberal foreign policy, and fascist war. 

3. The social development is driven largely by the petty bourgeoisie who push the extreme tendrils of liberalism into social acceptance, and also the socially engineered and government facilitated permissible opposition to those extreme tendrils.

4. The victory of war capital over other sectors of capital and the bourgeoisie.

5. The rejection, persecution, and repression through various means (structurally instituted at the state level, and also socially engineered and manipulated through the use of technology) of Marxism, socialism, communism, communitarianism, populism that threatens the oligopoly, revolutionary movements, socialist (nearly all) variants of anarchism[^1] and the authentic<sup>2</sup>[^2] religions.

6. Concerning feminism and women it exists in a continuum limited to the liberal paradox – summarily, explained by the notions of girlboss and tradwife at either ends of the liberal spectrum. Ergo, it denies women their own agency in discourse. To this end, concerning the notion of ‘girlboss,’ it employs a parallel of the sickest and morally debased capitalist tradition; the subjugation of women as sexual objects under the visage of empowerment – the enterprising and widespread facilitation of new sex work markets created by late-stage failing capitalism. On the other end of the permitted liberal position is the ‘tradwife.’ And this is actually hostile to conservative views on gender rolls and the sex of women; in this occurrence, instead of a religious, spiritual, cultural or other such absolutist discourse on the subject of a woman’s role in society, the notion of the ‘tradwife’ replaces the conservative or spiritual function with that of the fascistic ‘revolutionary’ or ‘alt. right’ where it is divorced from this spiritual and cultural aspect. The result is the balancing act of liberal society based on the internal contradictions within liberalism – for example, the contradiction between secularism and democracy as a point of completely manufactured social problems through the use of the state apparatus.

7. The embrasure of liberalism, capitalism, individualism, exceptionalism, the Western superiority complex, Satanism, post-modernism, presented as a shared identity (national, or more likely, and in the current context, as a united fascist civilization i.e. the entire West whose entire foreign policy is dictated by the United States, and therefore, its fascist oligopoly which through the mechanics of[ globalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Globalism), are often part or the same thing as the European fascist oligopoly.

8. The ‘othering’ or demonizing of another civilization (could potentially be another nation, however, this has not materialized yet – particularly if you view the Russian Federation as a civilization); a principal facet being the doublethink and doublespeak liberal conceptions of anti-racism wherein the social mechanics of being anti-racist are hollow, topical, and limited to virtue signaling while simultaneously rejecting change against the structural and capitalist mechanics of racism

9. The use of Lawfare to justify murder, invasion, decapitation strikes, state sponsored terrorism, regime change campaigns, etc. (this is largely unchanged in its mechanical practice from capitalism). This manifests in the use and direct weaponization of liberal apparatuses, bodies, and concepts i.e. the international criminal court, human rights, third wave feminism, liberal identity politics,

10. In regards to its stance on modernity, oligopical fascism is again a creature of convenience. It is best illustrated by the conceptual tenant of the cyberpunk genre: a high tech and futuristic low quality of life. This is because of the technological advancement under capitalism is limited to profit motive and in fascism, this issue is magnified and exacerbated.

11. The defeat of the free market and supply and demand through the intermariage of war capital and the state - horizontal and vertical integration on a global scale, government policy i.e. decreased social spending, increased and mandatory military spending, and regime change in the third world to facilitate new war capital supply chains. (this is largely unchanged in its mechanical practice from capitalism, except the degree which it happens domestically - for example, the given subjugation of other capitalist enterprises, or the non-democratic mechanics of war financing like handing Ukraine $400 billion dollars of taxpayer money while socially presented as if there is no alternative and this must happen. Dissent was crushed and quashed through algorithms).

	


<!-- Footnotes themselves at the bottom. -->
## Notes

[^1]:
     So described because[ anarchism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anarchism) was historically almost always within the socialist tradition. Due to liberal[ newspeak](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newspeak), the[ Austrian school of economics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Austrian_school_of_economics), [libertarianism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Libertarianism)/[Rothbardianism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murray_Rothbard), have been rebranded as ‘[anarcho-capitalism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anarcho-capitalism)’, itself being an oxymoron.

[^2]:
     ‘Authentic religion’ meaning most religion outside of false religions, or liberal religions – the Calvinist offshoots of Christianity, Scientology, i.e. products of liberal society divorced from 	scripture or ill-liberal culture. It should be noted that like capitalism, fascism is a creature of convention – that is, it will try to ally itself when necessary with traditional or conservative institutions. And within those authentic religions, they have been warned by their respective messengers about the[ Dajjal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Masih_ad-Dajjal) ([antichrist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antichrist)) the 
